Hi, guys.
Welcome.
In this lecture, we're going to start creating the functionality to sign up users.
Well, before then, we all agreed that the controller's directory is where we're going to be creating
all our logics.
So over this controller's directory we are going to create a new file and we're going to call this file
out, underscore controller, and then the section is dart darts and now we can use controller and bits
to make this wide.
In order to have a much more clean code.
What we can do is we can create a class and as well we can call this class ARDS controller.
Okay, great.
And now the next step is to create a function to sign up users.
We can call this function sign.
OP uses.
Uses OC.
And now it's in this parenthesis we are going to pass in the fields we need for now.
It's going to be the full name, the email address of the user, and then the password of the user.
In the future we are going to sort out this image.
Okay?
So within the parenthesis we can pass in the full name.
And we are expecting the test.
So this is a little type of string.
And we can had a trailer cover.
We want the e-mail address of the user.
It's also going to be a test.
So it is a data type of string and over here we need the password.
We are also expecting a test.
So it is a data type of string.
Okay, great.
And now what we can do is we can create a variable to store the possible errors.
So over here we can create a variable called whereas.
Which is the short form I wish we can take as the short form of results so we can assess it quite to
some hair or cord.
Okay.
Great.
Hey, now you can see it wants us to specify the type of variable this is.
It says so it is definitely a data type.
A data type of string.
Okay, great.
And now what we can do is we can have a try and the cache block.
So try.
And cash they within the tribal org.
What we can do now is we can have some validations check.
So over here we can say if.
Full name.
Darts is not empty.
And the email address of the user that is the email dot is not empty.
And finally and the password dot is not empty.
If it is not empty, then we want to do something over here.
Right.
So what we're going to do is we're going to sign up the users.
And in order to sign up the user, we had recently stored a package known as Firebase Cards, which
we have over here.
So what we can do is we can import this package.
So we're going to go back to the.
Land controller.
And over here we can create a final variable and we can just go ahead and specify this type of rainbow.
It is a type of firebase.
Art and we can call this rainbow.
On the score, art is going to be equal to fire bass art.
Dot is stands.
Okay, great.
So within the tribal org, if all these fields are not empty, then we want to sign up the user boards
in order to sign up the user.
It's going to take some time.
So what we can do is we can take a floater.
We are ready to wait.
See, it's signs of the user.
And to do that over here, we're going to need to pass in the async in order to use the.
So over here we can say we are ready to await for the process.
So what we can do now is we can call this on the score what variable we just created, and now we can
say dot create user with email and password so you can see it automatically this email and the password.
This full name is not really necessary.
We basically had that dot in order to have more information about the user.
Okay.
So we can add this over here.
So if it is not empty, then we want to create the user with email password.
Else.
LS.
That's maize.
The fields, we are not filled in.
So what we can do, we can update the rest table and we can then say, please, fields must not be empty.
Okay, great.
And what we can then do within the cache.
We can then say.
Whereas is equal to e got to string.
He dots a string.
To string.
Sorry.
Okay, now I'm going to spin this for you.
Over here, we are simply saying if these fields are not empty, then only wants to create the user
with email password.
Else if it is empty, we want to print to the user which says please fill spots be empty.
And over here if there is other error that is order from this then want to print wants to print it to
the user.
That is probably there is a network issue or failure in connection or email address already exists that
want to print this.
Okay.
So this is what we basically saying and this is basically all we need.
Now what are we going to need to do?
Finally is over here.
You can see all these are strings so we can specify the type of function.
But before then, like I told you, it's going to take some time in order for that user to get signed
up.
And that is why most of the time you're going to see a loading spinner, right?
Because it's going to take some time to sign up the user.
So what we can do is over here, we can specify that this type of function is a future because it will
take some time.
And all this data we have over here are all strings, right?
Okay, great.
And now over here, we can then say return.
Where's.
Okay.
This is basically all we need to do.
Now, finally, what we need to do is to tell this made the dot to initialize firebase.
Yes, we have successfully integrated firebase, but we also need to initialize it.
That is starts the edge.
Right.
Okay.
Sorry.
I think I basically had this.
So over here, we're going to need to say widgets.
Floater binding, that is show a little ice up and it's going to take some time in order to initialize
our firebase.
So we are going to need to say a floater that we are ready to wait for the process and in order to the
we need to use the async or via.
So now we can then say, I'll wait, Firebase.
Firebase.
Firebase Firebase Dots is show initialize app.
So this is basically where we can go further by saying.
Then.
We basically want to print something to the on so we say it's completed.
This is not really necessary.
Okay, great.
So what do we want to do?
We want to make sure all the widgets are initialized, such as the sensor that everything has been initialized.
Then we want to start of the Firebase engine.
Okay, great.
So now what we can do is we can go to the landing customer screen and we can call that function now
in order to have access to that function, which we have over here called signup users, we first need
to have access to this class.
So what we can do is we can create a variable to store that.
So you can use controller B and over here we can create a final variable and we can just go ahead and
specify type of way.
But it's a type of controller and we can call this variable on this call controller, there's going
to be equal to odd.
Controller.
Board controller class.
Great.
This is basically it.
Hey, now we can go to.
The.
Sign up screen the sign up screen where we have.
Okay.
Sorry.
I think I wish this.
This.
Okay.
I'm just going to.
Okay, this is it over here.
This is a sign off button.
So now we can get rid of this, and now we can call that variable on the score or controller.
And now we have access to the function called sign up users.
Now remember the previous lecture we talked about test data controller.
And what this controller does is it's going to store the inputs of the user.
So you can see over here we have this.
Password controller over here.
So whatsoever test we type in year.
Whatever test we type in here, it's going to gets saved in this test at this controller.
Right.
Okay.
So what we can do.
Remember, we created a function called sign up users and then we pass in all this variables called
fully email and password.
So now we are able to pass the value.
So this variable.
So now we can say underscore for name controller and water has the value and.
On the score.
Email controller.
In May, Comptroller.
We also would like to assess the value.
And.
Sorry, I just a password controller.
Door tests at this at all studies.
So this is basically everything we need in order to sign of.
Use us.
Okay.
We just have to wait for it to finally auto start.
And definitely there's not going to be headers.
What we can as well do we can over here.
We can also update the rebel Cordray's.
So if it does successfully sign of the user, we can say race is equal to success.
So this is what's going to get printed to the user.
And so ourself we can say, I count.
Created.
Okay.
Katrine.
Let's save.
So and over here as well.
We can also preach to ourself to say.
We're just gonna copy this -- just quickly and.
Paste this, okay.
Open semi there.
Okay.
And I will try to click on this.
We start having a little field.
Okay.
Click.
It's going to hurt to start this again.
Okay.
We'd send for this.
Waitin for this.
Okay.
Hopefully we.
The function of.
Okay.
So we can.
Click on this.
And check.
Our Miller.
I think I'll say that at the end of a year.
Okay.
I'm just going to try to create an account.
Probably network issues.
So my colleague.
And.
Macaulay.
Like.
I think it's some network issues.
My colleague.
Tim was at.
The email that's come and the password is ABC.
Click on signup up.
I think I have some network issues.
Okay.
Firebase has been successfully initialized, but I'm having some network issues.
I'm just going to do this by the same.
After you successfully created an account, you can check your users tab.
You're going to see over there later.
We're going to continue from here.
Okay, guys, see you the next section.